Analysis of task permutation

The task introduces us to a typical encode-decode task - we put -1s in a permutation and then we have to return it to its original state. The idea is that the more -1s we put, the 
better it will be for the points, which are computed by a formula, relative to the best solution. As we know, we cannot use global memory, which makes things slightly harder.
Let us move on to the solutions of the subtasks:

1. The permutation which is given to encode is sorted in increasing order - that is, of the form 1, 2, 3..n:
The solution is quite intuitive - we can put -1 at every number of the permutation, because we actually know what permutation has been given to encode. The main idea of this subtask is
to get feedback from the system that everything is fine and that we have understood the statement.

2. n <= 16-17:
This task allows the use of the "brute force" method.

3. The optimal solution places only one -1:
With these constraints we can simply put -1 at the one in the permutation in encode and then in decode replace it with one.
This works because, as it is said in the statement, -1 is replaced by the first unused number from 1 to n, therefore when we have only one -1 we will get a correct answer.

4. There are no constraints
The full solution is based on the following idea: in encode we replace with -1 the numbers which are the smallest
unused so far. That is, we put -1 at the consecutive occurrences of the numbers from 1 to n. For example, if we have the permutation 1 3 2 4 5 we will only be able to put -1
at 1 and 2, because when we reach 3, we have not used 2 yet, and when we reach 4 and 5 we have not used 3 yet. This is the greedy approach for this task and it guarantees an optimal
placement of -1s.


Observations of the authors:
When we thought that we had successfully made our first encode-decode task, it turned out that on some tests we were getting wrong answers.
On some tests we got a correct answer, on others it showed us that the decode permutation consisted only of zeros. Then Mitko made the observation that the system does not recognize
one of the vitally important folders for encode-decode tasks - manager. The reason for this is that the grading system of eJOY is old (from 2021), when it still did not support encode-decode tasks
(or they did not exist at all in general). Mitko managed to trick the system and, instead of having a manager folder, he put everything into the grader. But this has its consequences too. In reality the task
with the current grader can be cheated - see permutation_cheat_100p.cpp. But this can only happen if you know how the grader works, and that is simply not possible during a contest :).
And since we decided that the trick we used in the grader is quite interesting...


Analysis of the grader of task permutation
In tasks of the encode-decode type the role of the manager is to run the contestant's program two separate times - for encode and decode. The goal of this is the following: even if there is global memory
shared by the two functions, it becomes useless, because on every run of the program only one of the functions is called. 
The problem is that this version of the system does not support manager programs. Somehow a program (grader) has to be written which is compiled with another file (the solution) and 
checks whether there is global memory which is used by the two functions. Of course, in this situation the use of global memory cannot be fully prevented.
The grader which we implemented uses a greedy strategy for checking the global memory. The function encode is called 2 times - once with the original sequence and once with an arbitrary sequence
(in this case the same sequence with N+1 at the end). 
Let us look at three cheat solutions and how they work with the grader:

1. On a call to encode we store the sequence in global memory and return a sequence with N -1s, in order to get maximum points by the scoring formula. On decode we simply return the stored sequence.
This solution does not work, because on the second call to encode from the grader the sequence in the global memory is overwritten and decode will not return it correctly.

2. We return the same sequence in encode and decode.
According to the scoring formula this solution is simply not correct, i.e. it does not fill the sequence with any -1s.

3. The solution in permutation_cheat_100p.cpp: on every call to encode the sequence is stored in a list of sequences in the global memory and N -1s are returned. On decode we receive a sequence
which contains only -1s and our only indicator of which one it is is its size. We simply go over all the stored sequences and look for the one with size N.
This solution goes for full points, but the contestants could only come up with it if they know that encode is called twice and the second time the sequence has a different size.
This is in practice simply not possible.

In the end everything turned out perfect and cheating is in reality impossible on the contestants' side.


Idea, solutions, analysis, statement: Kiril Zashev
Solutions and greedy grader: Dimitar Shapatov
